.TH AISTART 1 "June 2026" "aistart 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
aistart \- launch agentic coding tools from a CLI or terminal UI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aistart
[\fB--theme\fR \fITHEME\fR]
.br
.B aistart start
[\fB--agent\fR \fIAGENT\fR]... [\fB--agents\fR \fILIST\fR] [\fB--env\fR \fIENV\fR] [\fB--cwd\fR \fIDIR\fR]
.br
.B aistart usage
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B aistart agents
[\fB--json\fR]
.br
.B aistart config
[\fB--init\fR|\fB--show\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aistart
starts Claude Code, Codex, and configurable Antigravity sessions against a
working directory. With no arguments it opens a Textual terminal UI.
.SH AGENTS
.TP
.B claude
Starts Claude Code using the
.B claude
command.
.TP
.B codex
Starts Codex using
.B codex --cd DIR
so the target directory is explicit.
.TP
.B antigravity
Starts a configurable Antigravity command. Defaults to
.B agy
when present on PATH.
.SH ENVIRONMENTS
.TP
.B terminal-tab
Open a new macOS Terminal.app tab. This is the default.
.TP
.B terminal-window
Open a new macOS Terminal.app window.
.TP
.B tmux
Create a detached tmux session, then open a Terminal window attached to it.
Multiple selected agents share one tmux session with split panes.
.TP
.B screen
Create a detached screen session, then open a Terminal window attached to it.
.TP
.B current
Run exactly one selected agent in the current terminal.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --theme THEME
Initial TUI theme when no subcommand is provided: dark, light, or amber.
.TP
.B --agent AGENT
Select one agent. May be repeated.
.TP
.B --agents LIST
Comma-separated agent list.
.TP
.B --env ENV
Launch environment: terminal-tab, terminal-window, tmux, screen, or current.
.TP
.B -C, --cwd DIR
Working directory. Defaults to the current directory.
.TP
.B --json
Emit JSON for status commands.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/aistart/config.json
User configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/stats-cache.json
Best-effort Claude local monthly usage source. The live Claude 5h and weekly
rate-limit windows are fetched from the Anthropic API
.B anthropic-ratelimit-unified-*
response headers using the Claude Code OAuth token (macOS keychain or
.IR ~/.claude/.credentials.json ),
falling back to cached policy-limit JSON when no token is available.
.TP
.I ~/.codex/state_5.sqlite
Best-effort Codex local token/session usage source. Live Codex 5h and weekly
rate-limit windows are queried from codex app-server.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success, 1 for launch failures, and 2 for command-line usage errors.
